\---
title: VGTC Newsletter, December 2018
layout: default
permalink: /newsletters/2018-12-01
breadcrumb:
  - ['Home', '/']
  - ['Newsletters', '/newsletters']
  - ['2018-12-01', '/newsletters/2018-12-01']
---

Hello, 

I am James Ahrens and I was elected chair of IEEE Computer Society Technical 
Committee on Visualization and Graphics (VGTC) on November 26, 2018. Thanks for 
your support!

### My Background

I am a senior scientist in the Applied Computer Science Group at Los Alamos 
National Laboratory. My primary research interests are visualization, 
computer graphics, data science and parallel systems. I am the author of over
95 peer reviewed papers and the founder/design lead of ParaView, an 
open-source visualization tool designed to handle extremely large data. 
ParaView is broadly used for scientific visualization, downloaded 
approximately a hundred thousand times per year, and is in use at 
supercomputing and scientific centers worldwide. 

### My Candidate Statement

The mission of the IEEE Visualization and Graphics Technical Committee
(VGTC) and its chair is to provide forums for the exchange and the
sharing of ideas, techniques, standards and experiences in the areas
of visualization, computer graphics, virtual reality and augmented
reality. These topics are critical part of the fabric of our evolving
technological society impacting how we learn, understand and interact
with information, one another, and the world. VGTC supports workshops,
conferences and professional development for practitioners,
researchers, developers, users and students.

I believe my experience working on large multi-institution,
multi-disciplinary projects and my leadership in the IEEE
Visualization community make me a great candidate for the VGTC chair
role. The breadth of the VGTC mission, supporting academic forums,
professional development, industry outreach and engagement, and
communicating with and listening to the range of opinions from
community members requires a chair who has experience successfully
working with many stakeholders.

I believe in a set of guiding principles when achieving VGTC objectives: 

1. timely communication to and from community members 
2. transparency and clarity in the decision-making process and a 
3. reduction of complexity and exceptions in operations. 

I believe we are a stronger community when all our members are
supported, represented and included. Therefore, I will support
inclusion activities for all VGTC sponsored conferences. I also
support increased industry and practitioner engagement to promote a
focus on real-world problem solving.

### The VGTC and the role of the VGTC chair

The VGTC is the Visualization and Graphics Technical Committee, the
governance body that oversees and sponsors all IEEE visualization and
virtual reality conferences including VIS, VR, ISMAR, 3DUI, Pacific
Vis, and EuroVis (as a co-sponsor). The VGTC is the main interface for
these research communities with the IEEE Computer Society, and also
maintains close ties with the publications TVCG (Transactions on
Visualization and Computer Graphics) and CG&A (Computer Graphics and
Applications). The VGTC fulfills many important roles including:
approval and oversight of conferences, symposia, and workshops;
oversight of publications through interactions with the IEEE CS
Publications Board; getting involved in policy and budget decisions at
the IEEE CS-level that affect the research community; and awarding the
IEEE VGTC Career and Technical Achievement Awards.

The VGTC Chair directs the VGTC and oversees the VGTC budget while
also advocating to the upper levels of IEEE on policy decisions. The
VGTC Chair is the only elected position within VGTC that is determined
directly by the membership. The Chair has the authority to directly
appoint many positions including most of the voting members of the
VGTC Executive Committee, some members of the VIS Executive Committee,
and one member of the VR and ISMAR steering committees. After the
Chair term ends, the Chair joins other previous Chairs on the VGTC
Executive Committee as a VGTC Director. The new Chair's term will run
from December 1, 2018 through November 30, 2020.

Sincerely,

James Ahrens  
VGTC Chair

p.s. Please feel free to contact me with your questions, comments or 
concerns about VGTC. I can be reached at chair@vgtc.org. 
